Due on February 9

PART I: Pitch a Project

In the first week of the semester, students are required to determine a data science project idea, which will allow them to     

Carry out a complete data science project from end to end.
Demonstrate proficiency in preparation and walk through of a presentation.
Demonstrate ability to carry out a literature search and summarize the state of the art.
Demonstrate ability to translate the project objects into a realistic work plan.
Demonstrate ability to design and implement required software using programming languages (such as Python and R) and/or tools 
(such as Hortonworks and Tableau).
Demonstrate ability to professionally present the project plan and results.
Pending approval by the Course Director, students are free to design their own problem statement and construct their own data set. 
Even though the individual capstone projects are encouraged, students might work in small teams depending on the project's complexity 
of the problem. As the project and problem statements warrant, students may be permitted to organize into teams of two to three 
participants. Students, who cannot choose a project idea, should contact the instructor as soon as possible. Data Science faculty 
might help with a list of possible projects and students can align themselves with problem statements corresponding to their individual 
interests.

Students are also required to determine the data set that they are going to work on, again within the first week of the semester. 
Students are advised to work on already existing datasets which are large enough to carry out advance data science studies.

Once you choose your project pitch and dataset, contact me (simsek@umbc.edu) as soon as possible for approval.

By following the due date listed in the table below, students will create 3-5 minutes long presentations explaining their idea (what is 
the project about, what kind of data will be studied, what will be the source of data), record their presentation (in a similar fashion 
to course instructor’s “Welcome to DATA 606” presentation), upload their video to internet (preferably to youtube) and share the links 
to their videos with the entire classroom via Blackboard Forums. write a 1-page document summarizing the materials discussed in the 
presentation and upload along with the presentation file to your github account (folder: Delivery-1)

Then students will have two days to watch 3 of their classmates’ presentations and write a review for each presentation grade their 
classmates’ presentations (see below for more details about peer-grading)
Email both review and grade to the instructor ( simsek@umbc.edu )
